.. wxmplot documentation master file

wxmplot: wxPython plotting widgets using matplotlib
========================================================

.. _wxPython: http://www.wxpython.org/
.. _matplotlib:  http://matplotlib.sourceforge.net/

`wxmplot` provides `wxPython`_ widgets and python functions for displaying
numerical data using `matplotlib`_.

While `matplotlib`_ provides excellent general-purpose plotting
functionality supports many backends, it does not have tight integration
with any particular GUI toolkit.  While The `matplotlib.pyplot` module provides
easy-to-use functions for plotting and displaying data, the features of its
Navigation Toolbars for interactivity and customizations are minimal.  On
the other hand, while `wxPython`_ has some basic plotting functionality, it
has nothing as good as `matplotlib`_.

`wxmplot` bridges the gap between `matplotlib`_ and `wxPython`_ by
providing wxPython widgets and user-friendly functions for basic 2D line
plots, image display, and some custom plots.  The displays made with
`wxmplot` give end-users highly interactive displays of their data that
allow zooming and un-zooming, reporting mouse positions, rotating images,
and changing color themes.  The displays are highly configurable, helping
the user to change many aspects of the plot such as colors, line types,
labels, marker type, color tables, smoothing.  To be clear, `wxmplot` does
not expose all of matplotlib's capabilities, but it does provide plotting
and image display tools that handle many of the most common plotting and
image display needs for scientific data.

The easy-to-use :mod:`wxmplot.interactive` functions enable script writers
to make 2D line plots and image displays from their data, and to interact
with and configure these displays as part of exploratory data analysis.
Programmers can use the `wxmplot` widgets to include these high quality
graphical displays of data in their wxPython applications to enable users
to explore their data.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   installation
   overview
   interactive
   plotpanel
   imagepanel
   examples
   other
